The existing criminal laws in most countries can and do cover computer-related crimes or electronically perpetrated crimes. Offences against the computer are relatively new as they arise from and in relation to the digital age, which threatens the functionality of the computer as an asset of a borderless information society. New laws are required in order to nurture and protect an orderly and vibrant digital environment. Offences through the use of computers merely constitute new ways to commit traditional offences using the electronic medium as a tool. In this case, existing legislation may not be suitable or adequate for several reasons; for example, the language in criminal statutes may not apply, jurisdictional issues may arise and punishments may not be appropriate. In this paper, I will conduct an overview of the approach taken to criminal law making in three common law jurisdictions across three continents - the United States, the United Kingdom and Singapore. I will critically examine the adequacies or otherwise of the law making machineries of each country to meet the challenges posed by computer-related crimes. I will then assess the adequacies or otherwise of the global response to what is essentially a worldwide problem that requires a consolidated solution. The selection of the three jurisdictions as the subject of study is meant to provide a taste of the challenges facing different sovereign entities with their unique blend of political, social, cultural and economic personalities. It allows a comparison of the treatment of laws by a federation of states on the one hand and unitary states on the other, and of the contrasting approaches between western and Asian as well as older and newer nations. This will be set against a common law backdrop, as these countries share similar legal systems and historical ties, and considered in the context of nations with developed information technology infrastructure. They will also provide a good springboard to assess the current trends in domestic crime prevention initiatives and in regional and global approaches to evaluate the current weaknesses in global response as well as to extract some suggestions to better the international criminal regime relating to electronically perpetrated crimes, which knows and respects no boundaries.
